from hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 70 recorded
live Thursday, May 2nd, 2013. Support for
Hanselman. This is provided by
Telerx offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net
makers of gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with front
end developer Garren means about
developer model culture. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I've got Garren means
with me today. How are
you? I'm good. How are
you? Brilliant. Although not as
good as you, because apparently
you, I was asking you
what you were working on
and you are you're. I
said fun employed, but you
have something even more interesting
going on. Well, I don't,
I don't know. I don't
know if it's, it's exciting.
Definitely. I'm I'm traveling around
speaking at conferences while I,
because I committed to that
before leaving my previous position.
And so I didn't want
to start a new position
having already committed to do
that. So That seems super
fun though. How is that
different than like, you know,
a lot of these people
are doing this journeymen thing
where it's like, quit your
job and then just couch
surf and code your way
across the planet. I, well,
I'm not making any money.
So that primarily it's that.
So like all of this
is like stuff that, that
either conferences have very kindly
sponsored for me or, or
I'm outlaying the cash for
like random things like pet
sitting and taxis myself. Yeah.
It's definitely hard. I don't
think one can really make
a living running around speaking
most conferences. Don't don't give
you anything other than conference
food. Oh, I, I think
a lot of the conferences
I've been lucky to be
involved with like give you
like and fair and like
a hotel. So that's great.
It's like, of course free
travel, but yeah, it definitely
doesn't. Doesn't satisfy your, your
day to day needs back
at home. Yeah, exactly. I've
talked to a number of
people who think that somehow
I'm making piles of money
speaking at conferences. I'm like,
no, you know, coach airfare
domestically and the holiday Inn
is about as exciting as
it gets recently. You did
a talk at a conference
called bacon is bad for
you. What conference was that
at? That was at a
devil of bacon in London.
It was, that was actually
the name of the conference.
Yeah. Deb's love bacon. Yeah.
Was the conference about bacon?
No, it, it was about
The subtitle was things developers
love. So it was about
all kinds of things. And
I saw amazing talks about
like music theory and travel
hacking and just a variety
of things that you could
potentially geek out over. Oh,
like, like kind of like
life hacks, just like, yeah.
Kind of like wave packs.
That seems like a very
exciting conference. The only thing
is I don't eat bacon.
I don't eat any pork.
Oh, none at all. Yeah.
My wife doesn't eat pork.
So when we got married,
we made an agreement. It's
funny what the deal is.
I don't drink and she
doesn't eat pork. So when
we got married, we traded.
So now neither of us
eat pork and we don't
drink. So if we went,
if I had to, I
did a post recent Iceland
recently, maybe a year or
two ago about alcohol at
conferences. And I started going
to some, some kinds of
conferences, but you know, by
10 30, 11 at night,
everyone's drunk. Yeah. And that
just made me really uncomfortable.
So I just was like,
you know, can we just
not have any alcohol at
a dev conference for once
in our lives? And a
lot of people really did
not agree with that. And
I kind of got Dogpile
Don. And now I was
at a, I was at
a really good conference recently
called code mash. And they
had a bacon bar. Like
it was just a bar
that served nothing but bacon.
And I found, it felt
like it was a little,
little, much. Yeah. I think
JS comp does it as
well. They have like, or
at least one year that
I went, they had, they
had just piles of bacon
in, in burners. So, so
then you're at a conference
called devs, love bacon, doing
a talk called bacon is
bad for you and you
don't even eat bacon yourself.
So what is this talk
about? And It wasn't really
about bacon. I just, I
actually submitted the talk because
of the name of the
conference, sort of a play
on it. But it was,
it was more about the
idea of, of the things
that developers love and like,
what are those things doing
for us? And are they
helping us in like, does
that sort of way of
defining a developer by the
things he or she loves
does, is that helping us?
What should we be defining
a developer by? Like, I've
always thought that what Linus
said, talk is sheep talk
is cheap. Show me the
code. Yeah. Was the really
the best way. And then
when I have, when I
do talks on diversity or
have conversations with people on
diversity, I always say that
code doesn't really have a
gender or a race. And
while I, while I admire
diversity and I strive for
diversity of, of diversity of
thought, ultimately I just want
to know if it compiled
and passed the test. Yeah.
I think that, I think
that's exactly it like a
developer, somebody who writes code.
Okay. So then that kind
of takes a talk like,
or a conference called what
developers love and just makes
it about code. Then it
kind of basically says the
premise of the entire conference
that you're at is wrong.
Like let's all watch big
bang theory and, and star
Trek. I don't know. I
don't know if I would
say the premise of the
conference was right. I mean,
it was still, it was
still a fun conference, but
I, I wanted to talk
about the, like most of
the talks I saw at
the conference were like about
things that, that are not
such sort of memes in
the developer community, which was,
which was cool. They were
just random things you could
geek out about. But there,
there definitely are like, you
know, like star Trek is,
is when I mentioned a
lot in the talk things
that I think you're sort
of expected to like as
part of your identity as
a developer, and maybe that
is not such a great
way to define developers. Isn't
this, the definition. And I'm,
we're not dog piling on
this conference. If anyone listens
to this, I hope they
understand that this is about
the larger issue and not
in any way about this
particular conference, which sounds like
a super fun conference to
go to awesome coffee. Yes.
Please invite me to come
to this conference, but doesn't
this promote monoculture. He doesn't
just basically say, you know,
if you don't like star
Trek and if you don't
like big bang theory, and
if you don't, you know,
you can't quote a Babylon
five, then you're probably not
going to be good at
programming. Yeah. I think, I
think that's exactly the danger
that, that we, we, we
conflate the cause and effect
there and what's actually relevant
because we get so used
to sharing those things with
the people around us. And
like, we, like most of
us when we started out,
like we, we got that,
like that impression really strongly
that we were supposed to
be that kind of person
until it enables us to
relate to each other really
easily. And so then when
we're in any kind of,
not sitting down with literally
the hands, like keyboards coding
situation, it's an easy way
to be like, Oh, we're
we're buddies. We're like part
of the same team go
developers. It makes me think
about young people who are
thinking about getting into programming,
because it almost says you
can't be a well rounded
individual if you choose this
vocation. Yeah, exactly. That was,
that was totally my feeling
as well, like that you,
whatever, whatever your identity is
outside of that, like you're,
you're supposed to kind of
suppress, and I've definitely noticed
that happened, like where people
have have interests that are
considered, like, especially if they're
considered non-serious like people will,
I don't know, just, I
guess, just laugh at you,
which is, which is not
super, like not a big
deal, but it, you definitely
get the message that you're,
you're not supposed to talk
about your non serious interests
in certain circles. I also
noticed that some technologies can
chop themselves up their culture's
up based on age. So
I'm a.net guy. And there's
the, the kind of the
joke about like old.net people
and their kids. Right. You
know, like everyone's over 35
and has kids, well, like
the node community is early
twenties and you know, the
Ruby people have certain style
and personality and there's a
lot of free hugs. And
these kind of like this
clumping occurs within, within code
tech, within code, which makes
me feel like, well, maybe
I'm too old to go
and become a node person.
Or maybe I'm not, I
don't, I don't do enough
vintage clothing. So I shouldn't
be a rubious or, you
know what I mean? And
like, Oh, I don't want
to do.net. Those people are
like, they've given up on
life and they work for
Aflac or something. I would
imagine Affleck's actually very good
to work for. I would
suspect they'd probably have good
disability, I would think. Yeah.
But I totally know what
you mean. Like I I'm,
I'm in my mid thirties,
myself and being a front
end person and JavaScript person.
I definitely noticed that everybody
around me is for the
most part in their twenties,
which is a little weird.
And it makes me wonder
if I'm immature for my
age. Well, does doesn't that
make it that much more
difficult to put yourself out
there? And I don't necessarily
mean speaking, but just, just
showing up to work and
presenting yourself, you know, who,
you're not one of us.
I don't know. I think
it's, it's again, going back
to that idea of an
adopted identity. Like I I've
learned to fake it. Like,
I, I, I've sort of
learned to take, to keep
up with, with things like
that, that the kids are
into so that I can,
you know, like I can,
I can still be a
part of those communities, but
on the other hand, like
I have the things that
I do on my own
that, like, I don't really
talk about it in those
communities, like working on my
house or like the importance
of like my pets in
my life. Well, like a
lot of developers I know
who like fly all around
the world don't have pets
or like children or like
spouses or anybody that they
have to, they have to
be concerned about like leaving
at home. And like, I
don't know, it's, it's, it's
different, but like, it's definitely
there definitely is that segmentation
there. And like, you definitely
have to, like, I think
adopt the traits of whatever
that segment is to, to
fit into something. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. I did. I did
a blog post once on
square foot gardening for programmers
and then like all these
like older married couples, just,
Oh, this is amazing. I
didn't know. I thought we
were the only ones I
thought we were the only
ones that loved square foot
gardening. And you did it
from a programmer point of
view. And then at the
same time, I'll have people
unfollowing me for tweeting about
my kids. You know, it's
like, you know, I'll just
put some harmless tweet out
there. It's a day at
the zoo with the kids
and then pictures of the
kids. And I was like,
Oh, unfollowed, not enough technical
meat. Okay. Okay. That's a
little unfriendly. They're hipster. Why,
why don't we like hipsters?
Oh, I, I, my, my
theory is I can't remember
all the points that I
had on the slide right
off hand. But you said
they were unfriendly. Yeah. Basically
unfriendly know-it-alls would, would sum
it up very well. Yeah.
And much like, Yeah, of
course. Except we're older experience
get off my lawn unfriendly,
not at all. But I
think that one of the
points that you made in
the talk was that punishing
people for the wrong interests.
And I think we see
that if you've ever seen
Portlandia it's, it's like, you
know, you're in, you're in,
you're in Austin and I'm
in Portland. So it's this,
this kind of hipster central.
Yeah. But you know, if
you, if you don't, if
you didn't read that article
in the new Yorker, and
then, then you're not the
right kind of people who,
who do we want to
join our communities and what
do we need to do
as a, as people who
are talking on a podcast
or people who are arguably
out there in public to
let people know, Hey, the
water's fine. Come in. We
want you in our community.
We want differing point of
views and we want non
bacon eating people. Well, I,
my feeling is that one
of, one of the issues
that we have is we
don't want people to join
our community because that dilutes
the idea that we're all
really kind of these special
geniuses, if, if just anybody
can, can join. And so
I think we, we like
to set up sort of
this, not quite hazing, but
like something like it before
we allow people into the,
the core of like whatever
our community happens to be.
And, and when, when really
what we should be looking
for is just everybody who
has the capacity to, to
write code, because that's how
we get that diversity of
ideas and experience. And then
we become better coders. We
write better software, et cetera.
So I think we have,
we have a real problem
of motivation in terms of
getting people into coding. And
there's a lot of lip
service paid, but when it
comes down to it, like
what we're looking for, people
like us who validate the
idea that we're supposed to
be here, and it's some
sort of birthright. And I
think that's, that's my own
suspicion. I don't have anything
to back it up, but
that's how it feels to
me. That's an interesting idea
though. The, the, the birthright
comment, that's a, that's a
word with a lot of
emotional baggage to it, but
there are, and of course
we're talking in general generalisms
generalizations, but the idea like,
you know, I was, I
was oppressed in high school
and you know, this is
my right, you know, I'm
smart, I'm smart. And this
is what I was born
to do, you know? I
mean, I don't know about
you, but I definitely had
that feeling when I kind
of discovered that I had
some ability at this. It
was like, ah, here we
go, revenge. Right? This is,
this is how it's going
to happen is that I
have this superpower. Right. You
know, you're, you're beat up.
And then you get bit
by the radioactive spider and
now everything is going to
be okay. But also the
idea that there is no
payoff or at least in
the short term for bringing
people in that have diverse
interests, right. Is the code
better? I don't know. We'll
have to go and build
a crim incredibly diverse and
exciting team in order to
see. I've never seen any
studies on that. Like, you
know, we have fewer, a
fewer tests failures because our
team has diverse interests. Right?
Yeah. I think it's one
of those things that I've
certainly seen studies saying that
the groups perform better with
a diversity of ideas and
backgrounds. I feel like you
can extrapolate that to say
that you're, you're, you're just
going to have better planning
when, when everybody isn't sort
of school to have the
same ideas and the same
approaches, like you'll, you'll plan
your software projects better, which
will lead to better code
and like better like division
of labor. When you have
people who are interested in
doing different parts of the
system, all kind of working
together. But yeah, I've never
seen any studies either. It's
just something I feel in
my heart Is that enough
though, for us to make
a more welcoming community that
we just, we know in
our hearts, this is the
right thing to do. Therefore
we should try to be
more welcoming. Well, I, for,
for technical people, I would
say probably not. I think
we probably need some metrics
behind that, but, but that
of course implies that, that
we, we find that we
find a widely diverse pool
of people with all kinds
of interests and put them
in a room for a
couple years and see what
kind of software they're able
to produce, assuming that they
all get treated equally as,
as developers. And we don't
sort of keep the classic
developer who watches star Trek,
like on a, on a
pedestal. And I think that
would be very difficult thing
to, to actually test out,
unfortunately. Hmm. The, in the,
in the talk you were
going on about how the
caricature has become very public
now, like our little group
has, has people watching us
now, like we remember the
revenge of the nerds movies
and things like that. And
that was kind of a
pocket protector slide rule, kind
of a nerd, but the
stereotype is now kind of
been, been owned and now
I've been repackaged and turned
into, into television and movies
and stuff like that. The
character is completely public now.
Yeah. Is that okay? I
think it, it bothers me
a little bit. I actually,
I was just on a
plane back from a conference
and I watch every watched
the social network on the
plane and just like, like,
who is it? Aaron Sorkin,
I think wrote the film
and he's known for his
dialogue. And I, I was,
I was thinking about like
how the dialogue is like
super clever, but the, the
things that, that when he,
when he tries to make
like technical jokes or like
just show some sort of
technical credit in the writing,
it comes across, like with
the same level of sophistication
is, is hackers hackers. Yes.
Which is a fabulous film.
But yeah. And I think
it's interesting that like, people
are aware enough of, of
sort of the buzz words
and like the, the things
that are associated with, with,
with what we do, but
the, they still use those
things to paint a picture
of, of, of this, this,
this nerd, like this, this
sort of like social outcasts,
like the, I remember reading
when, when the social network
came out, that it was,
it was a mischaracterization in
a lot of respects, particularly
one of the things that
I remember was that they'd
mentioned the, the sort of
driving force in, in the
movie is that like, he's
trying to like impress or
anger this girl. And in
reality, he had like a
steady girlfriend throughout the time.
Who's now his wife. I
think. So it just, just
this idea that like, that
like nerds are like romantically
flawed. Like it just was
one of the things that
kind of stuck out. Yeah.
I mean, there is a
certain amount of, let me
just to say that he
created the, you know, one
of the most successful companies
and now, you know, a
billion people on the planet
because, you know, he really
wanted to hang out with
this girl. Like he didn't
just want to solve a
technical problem. God forbid he
didn't want, and they never,
they never showed the nerd
as being a competent business
person who had an idea
and executed on that idea.
Right. You know what I
mean? That would be a
really boring social network trailer.
He had an idea he
chose to execute on that
idea. You know? I mean,
no. Yeah. There was a
girl. Oh, alright, here we
go. Great. So then does
that cause people to kind
of opt out? Yeah, that
was, that was, that was
definitely one of the things
that, that I felt like
I could back up. So
there's, there's this deep room
study. I, a woman at
the university of Washington did
where she, where she led
these people into one of
two rooms and asked them
if they wanted to do
computer science. One was like
a very generic kind of
room, very comfortable. The other
was essentially a comfortable room,
but it was covered in
like geek paraphernalia. And she
got, she got a much
better response from people led
into this sort of neutral
room. Then those led into
the geek room just because
people were like, Oh, this
is, this is not me.
Like, this is something very
well, I dunno, I dunno
why they did it or
why they said that. But
the, the results imply that
that people didn't want to
be associated with with that
sort of geekiness or it
made them feel excluded in
some way. Well, I could
definitely see how that would
make someone feel it, people
can feel excluded based on
any number of things. It
can be something that you
can see a color or
gender, or it could be
something that how you, how
you feel. I mean, this
is why a, a in
equal workplace is so important
because if you're calling out
someone because of any aspect
of their personality, they're going
to feel totally excluded in
Latin and unwelcome, but they
may never actually say it.
They may just disappear from
the workplace one day and
you're like, exactly what was
wrong with that guy? Oh,
well, you know, it turns
out we were all eating
bacon and he totally was
not into vacant. Yeah. But
when does it get to
PC though? I mean, someone
who listening might say, I'll
come on. This is another
diversity and technology talk and
you know, who cares? Who,
who has the opportunity or
who shows up ultimately the
work gets done. And if
it's all a bunch of
Anglo-Saxon white guys, why do
we, you know, who cares?
Right. And that's a, that's
an attitude that I think
definitely pervades everything. Even, even
like, it's easier to talk
about almost when you're talking
about things like, like vacant
or like drinking, like you
mentioned, because those are, those
are things that, you know,
we, we can change and
like, we don't, you know,
we don't have to go
around all the time. Like
even if we enjoy bacon
or alcoholic eating bacon or
drinking alcohol, but people still
don't want to be, I
think they, they perceive being
told what they can and
can't have in can can't
do as, as some sort
of threat. And there that's,
I think we just need
to be better about that.
We need to be a
little bit more adult about
being willing to have those
kinds of conversations, because right
now, like you said, like,
I, I think that if
you, if you feel uncomfortable,
like with something that's happening
in your workplace or like
a conference or on IRC
or whatever, like you're really,
your only option is to,
is to leave because you're
not going to get a
good response. If you're like,
Hey, can we, can we
like stop doing this? This
is making me uncomfortable. And
we don't have, we don't
really have a good way
of talking about that without
everybody like flipping out and
being like, you're trampling over
my rights. And it's unfortunate
and kind of silly because
it, yeah, it's just pointless.
I don't know What about
professionalism? This word gets thrown
around a lot and I
get accused of being ageist.
Cause I'm like, I'm, you
know, I'm, I guess I'm
in my late thirties now,
right up against 40. And
a lot of people are
using this kind of get
off my lawn comment around
me a lot. And I'm
just like, yeah, the kids
today. And you, you use
that, you throw that term
out there kind of lightly
the kids today. You know,
the kids today, they don't
not understand professionalism and they
don't understand. And his professionalism
even required. I think we
need some professionalism. I don't
think we necessarily need the
classic picture of professionalism, but
I think we need to
be willing to define professionalism.
And I think that's our
real problem is that we
refuse to define it for,
for our own industry. We
don't have any idea of
professional standards beyond just like
the basics of like showing
up to work and like
definitely you have to check
in your code, but like
how we, how we act
and behave like with each
other, as professionals, I think
is something that we, we
refuse over and over again
to talk. And Python is
a really good example. I
think just the blow up
around, around everything that happened
there and how it was
dealt with and were the
comments inappropriate and all this
stuff like that. To me,
those are questions that professionalism
is it professional to, to
make off color jokes at
a conference. And is it
professional to take a picture
of other attendees that are
at a conference and where
are our standards in those,
those are all interesting questions
that it would be good
for us to resolve, but
that's not what happened. Everybody
freaked out and people got
fired. And I think that's
what our community does over
and over again when presented
with opportunities to clarify what
we expect from one another,
How could we, that was
a, that was a complicated
and multilayered situation. Yes. And,
you know, I think as
they say, as with all
scandals, mistakes were made on
all sides, but I think
your point was whether or
not the off-color comments were
off color or not, and
whether or not the picture
taken was appropriate or not,
frankly, neither of those things
matter because the re the
resulting reaction was so completely
over the top. Right. And
completely disproportionate to the original
problem that it in fact
proves the original point. Right.
Right. I mean, the point
was, did she feel uncomfortable?
Were those jokes inappropriate doesn't
really matter because the resulting
reaction by whoever and not
necessarily people who reflected the
developer community at large, although
geek community was REL reflected
in the people who reacted,
I could totally see how
anyone, no matter what their
gender or color would say,
okay, this is not really
a group of people I
want to hang out with.
I mean, that was, you
know, like we just poked
the poke, the sleeping lion
here. Yeah. Oh, it was
unprofessional. Yes, exactly. And you
used the term a asshole.
We have an asshole problem
in your tongue. There's actually
a really great book. There's
a couple of, I hate
to say asshole so much
because people listen to this
in the car with their
kids, but there's asshole driven
development. Scott, Scott Burkin has
a whole whole post about
that, about where the biggest
jerk makes the decisions. Wow.
Yeah. That's a reason. It's
like a real thing. You
can probably work. The, I
know I may have actually
been that guy and there's
a couple of books on
finding out, like, if, if
you, if you don't know
who the asshole is on
your team, it's probably you.
Yeah. Yeah. There's a great
book called the no asshole
rule about building a civilized
workplace. That sounds like a
good baseline rule. Indeed, indeed.
But you do do, does
this mean that developers are
simply need babysitters? Is this
why managers exist? I think
that, that's why we have
so many, right. I think
that we could, we could
probably deal without as much
supervision as we have right
now, if we were willing
to, to sort of stop
being assholes to each other,
to make that a priority
in our communities. That that
is maybe not an equal
level, but like somewhere close
to, like how much code
do you check in? Are
you writing? Are you writing
comments? Are you writing tests?
Like, are you being an
asshole, should be one of
those things that you check
when you're doing any sort
of professional coding work. I
think if we want to,
if we want to be
able to be like, like,
conversely, I think that that
would, that would provide us
more freedom if we, if
we were, if we were
able to agree on some,
some, some freedom. So we're
going to give up like
the freedom to offend one
another. I think that we
would get more freedom out
of that because we get
less of these distractions and
less as these like Twitter
Wars and everything else. And
then we actually have more
time to focus on what
we're, what we're doing and
we can exchange ideas and
be good professionals and good
developers. How, how do we
find an end point? Is
there, is there an end
to this, I mean, is,
is civilized discourse like we're
having right now the solution,
or is this, we, we
don't, I don't know how
this culture got created and
I don't know how we're
gonna, I think it's, I
think it's, it comes from
expectations. And I think that
when, when, like, like if
you and I like our
people on, like, we go
in and like go to
our teams and like, we
have a certain expectation professionalism.
And instead of, instead of
just leaving, like when, when
things get uncomfortable, we're willing
to like, do the hard
work of being like, Hey,
that's not cool at work.
I wish you would stop
writing your razor scooter up
and down the hallway. Or
I wish she would stop,
you know, drinking in the
middle of the day or
whatever. I wish she would
stop, like using swear words
to talk about our users,
whatever it is. Like just,
just saying those things and
being, being willing to be
accountable for them. And just
having somebody say those things
though, that that might be
uncool or like, you know,
not, not, not super popular
ideas to consider in developer
communities. I think that's where
it starts in. Like the
more people you have seen
those things, then, then it's
sort of like any other
kinds of diversity, then the
people around you who are
maybe scared to say those
things can, can feel like
that's a valid thing to
say and be like, Hey,
I wish you would take
your razor scooter outside and
play with it out there
while you're at work or
whatever the issue happens to
be. And of course this
all depends on the culture
that that can mean that
a company has chosen definitely
to promote, you know, not
to pick on razor scooter
people. But if you've got
a, you know, if you've
got a ping pong and
pool loud rock music at,
in, in the afternoons and
like beer from two o'clock
on kind of company, yeah.
Someone might think that's not
professional. That seems a little
bit dorm room to me.
But ultimately that's the culture
that, that company has kind
of decided. Yeah. Yeah. If
it's coming from the top,
I don't think you can
really do anything, but leave
if you're not comfortable with
that, which is unfortunate. But
if it's coming from the
top, then that's what it
is. Right? Yeah. It's a
tough one though, because I
mean, no one wants to
be the square, you know,
like that's why I was
so uncomfortable when I said,
you know, I'd really rather
not have a lot of
drinking at these developer conferences.
Yeah. I think, I don't
know. I think that there's
sort of a false economy
there because we expect all
this. We expect we've come
to expect a lot of
entertainment from our communities, from
our jobs, from our professional
circles. And like, I see
it. And I think, I
think there are a lot
of people like who, who
are sort of coming around
to this and Def definitely,
it seems more common among
people who are a little
older to me, but it's,
it's, it's, you're, you're being
given these things and being
asked to stay at work,
to enjoy them instead of
having the free time to
go and do the things
you love on your own,
which yes, you might have
to pay for your own
beer. You might have to
pay for your own train
at the pool table. But
on the other hand, you
get to play, play pool
when and where you want,
you get to drink beer
when and where, and with
whom you want. And we
it's a strange trade off.
And I don't know why
we wouldn't want to define
our, what we do at
work a little bit more
narrowly to not include those
things because they might be,
they might be good bonding
exercises in some sense, but
they're there. I dunno. I
feel like they take away
time from our lives outside
of work and make it
a little dorm roommate. Like
you said, you don't want
to bond necessarily with the
people you work with, the
way you would with the
people you, you had to
live with in college. Yeah.
Yeah. It's such a challenge
though, to find the right
balance. It seems to me
like kind of in wrapping
up that the balance is
the word that everyone wants.
Right. Everyone wants to feel
comfortable. Everyone wants to do
good work. Everyone wants to
have fun. You know, I
like fun as much as
the next person, but at
the same time, they want
to do it in a
safe and encouraging environment where
they're not, but they feel
that their work is appreciated,
right. Without necessarily being a
square. Yeah. It's tough. Yeah.
So people can see your
talk on Vimeo and they
can look at your slides
on speaker deck and they
can check you out at
Garren, G a R a
N n.com and see other
parts of your work. Of
course your work is front
end development, and presumably a
lot more interesting to you
then this topic that we've
just spent the last half
an hour talking about. Well,
this is, this is very
interesting as well. I mean,
I've been doing this since
the nineties. And so I'm,
I'm very interested in sort
of what, what that's all
meant to me as a
person. So Yeah, this is
interesting too. Cool. Well, thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .